# Autism
Children with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD), a Neurodevelopmental disorder tend to find difficulty in using language and communication as a medium to socialise and often lack cognitive skills like problem-solving. Auto means self and hence the name autism, the tendency of people to remain with themselves. They find it difficult to organise information. It is usually caused due to genetic disorders or environmental conditions. Unfortunately, there is no cure for Autism. The treatment lies within helping each child in their way of learning or tailoring treatment for each one of them. Support for children with Autism can be done through specialised educational assistance and behaviour therapy.  Our eLearning virtual reality-based project is a form of positive reinforcement learning that helps create consistency in an autism child’s environment through virtual simulations. We aim to help these children by training their brains and letting them control their world and feel less anxious and more confident and also help their parents understand and monitor them. We understand and identify a child’s strength and weakness. This is often difficult to analyse since they lack communication skills. We, therefore, create a calm environment to trigger joint attention that is helping them share their interests and regulate them and their behaviour while the parent can access information to understand his/her child better. We build on the child’s interest and help keep them engaged. We prepare these users for situations through virtual worlds.
